let's now move on to look at one of excels power functions,
this Summit function.
To make things more interested,
we'll use it in combination within the ranked 706 manipulating numbers.
Let's open zero to So here we have a serious of worksheets,
which will have an identical torment.
And in our summary worksheet from sales,
we want to calculate all the different categories of expenditure across Bulla branches.
So what we need is conditional.
So nation,
when we examine the data you need of our branch work feeds,
we're interested in Kahlan D,
the amount reimbursed.
But we want a breakdown of the amount reimbursed category.
How much did we spend on travel,
public transport and so forth?
And this is exactly what some if enables us to do and then to complete our model.
We have the names of all our branches,
which correspond to the worksheet that contains the figures for each of the branches.
And that's where indirect will come in when you intend to use the indirect function in a
formula.
It's usually a good idea to start by creating a literal reference and then including the
indirect function afterwards.
So let's expand our formula bar so equals some if all cancer,
since we'll be nest in the indirect funding inside it.
But for the moment,
let's ignore indirect.
Let's create a literal reference using the first of our work feats.
Birmingham.
So we're supplying the first argument of the summit function,
and that's the criteria range the range in which the summit function will look for whatever
criteria you specified.
And that's going to be the category column calling F.
And since we intend to copy this formula to the right well,
now press the F four key to convert the reference into an absolute reference.
Coma and old enter.
Now we specify the criteria.
So back to the bronze sales work feet and the criteria is in row one.
So we click on B one now.
Then we've got to think about dollar signs.
If we copy across,
we want the be to change so we can pick up all the different categories.
But if we can't beat down,
we have one with one to change.
We want to stay on row one,
so we just press that for and so we've got B dollar one coma or enter,
and then the final argument is optional.
It's the some range.
This is the range of cells that you want to total.
If it submitted,
the function will attempt to some the Chrissie rearrange.
In our case,
the some range is different.
How some range is calling d the amount we invest.
And again,
we need to press that fool to fix the range old enter and then the closes for emphasis to
finish our literal formula.
So to finish our formula,
we used the indirect function to compose both of ourselves.
References.
So,
first of all,
the criteria range.
Instead of having a literal reference to the Birmingham worksheets using indirect,
we can now say Take the contents of Cell A to which is Birmingham and then can Katyn eight
.
An exclamation mark,
which excelled requires for a worksheet reference,
followed by the criteria column column F,
which contains all their expense categories.
Then we got on criteria.
No changes there,
but for the some range,
we again using the ranks.
We take the worksheet name from a to,
and this time after the exclamation mark,
we tag on a reference to Colin D.
And that's the amount reimbursed collar.
So for our criteria range.
We could delete the word Birmingham and convert the remainder of the reference into a
string.
And then we can use indirect click on A to press that full until we've got a dollar sign in
front of the A.
But not in front of that,
too,
and percent the remainder of this string and the clothes in parenthesis.
And then we could just copy the stomachs of that and paste it to compose the some range
open quotation mark closing quotation marks close in parenthesis.
So if you use an indirect,
that's what I'd recommend.
Always start with a literal string as an example,
and then look to see where you can use indirect to introduce flexibility into your model.
So when we enter,
we should get the same results.
But what we can now do is to copy both across and down.
Let's just check one of our figures,
so I'm gonna check comedy travel 1159.2.
Let's just going to filter on,
actually travel and then highlight the amount reinvest.
And if you look on the right hand side of the status bone,
you'll see we've got out 1159.20 So that's the summit function where you're using a single
criteria.
In the next video,
we'll move on to look at summits,
which allows you to specify multiple criteria.